#summary Frequently Ask Questions.

== Using of Siphon ==
=== Why Siphon doesn't work with Skype ===
Skype uses a proprietary protocol that doesn't use SIP protocol. And Siphon uses SIP protocol.

_But you can call Skype's users by gizmo5 project. When you want to call someone, you must use SIP URL: sip://number@opensky.gizmo5.com_
_You can write this URL in safari, or in your address book (web field)._

=== Why Siphon doesn't allow to receive a call when it doesn't run ===
Apple doesn't accept (for the moment) an application runs in the background. So, when Siphon doesn't run, the SIP server of your provider doesn't know your iPhone.

=== Why Siphon doesn't work on 3G/EDGE network ? ===
The developer agreement forbids the development of VoIP software for 3G/Edge. Moreover, several mobile phone operator forbid the VoIP traffic on their 3G/EDGE network.

_The Siphon version released on Cydia works on 3G/EDGE network._

_But the users must verified their mobile subscription. *The author is not responsible of Siphon's usage.*_

=== Does Siphon use gateway server ? ===
No, You are directly connected to your SIP provider.

=== Does Siphon work with Bluetooth stereo headset ===
If you have a Bluetooth stereo headset & A2DP adapter for iPhone, Siphon will work over Bluetooth stereo. 

This was tested with Jaybird JB-200. It will not work over the handsfree profile. This is an apple limitation.

=== What is NAT option ? ===
NAT is [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Network_address_translation Network Address Translation]


=== What is ICE option ? ===

ICE is [http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Interactive_Connectivity_Establishment Interactive Connectivity Establishment]

=== Which codec are supported by Siphon ===

Currently, Siphon implements G711, GSM and G722 codec.
In the future, iLbc, amr will be supported.

== Siphon and iPhone's applications ==
=== Why Siphon doesn't use/display the favorites of iPhone? ===
Apple allow to share address book, but in iPhone OS 2.0 and 2.1, it doesn't existe API to obtain favorites.

=== Why the recent calls of Siphon and iPhone are not shared? ===
Like previous question on favorites, Apple doesn't allow to manage the recent calls list.